# iskibris

###Prerequisites
At this point, you have two choices. 
If you want to be able to work on the project in a nice IDE, and also compile it and run it on an emulator, you need Android Studio

If you only want to compile you'll need these three tools:

* [Android SDK](https://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html#Other)
* [Java JDK](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html)
* [Gradle](https://gradle.org/gradle-download/)
(For steup instructions, see [this link](https://spring.io/guides/gs/gradle-android/#initial))

For Mac OS X:
* Android SDK: 98 Mb
* Java JDK: 227 Mb
* Gradle: 62 Mb

Total Size: 387 Mb

For Windows:

* Android SDK: 139 Mb
* Java JDK: 180 Mb
* Gradle: 62 Mb

Total Size: 381 Mb

For Linux:

* Android SDK: 294 Mb
* Java JDK: 174 Mb
* Gradle: 62 Mb

Total Size: 530 Mb

Since this project is created in Android Studio (Which uses IntelliJ) the build files for Gradle are automatically created.

###Compiling

Once you've installed all of the above, and set-up Gradle, you can compile Java files using Gradle command prompt commands

1. from the command prompt, cd to the directory where you've downloaded the app
2. write: gradle clean build -x lint    (-x lint will disable lint, as it produces errors during build)
3. If everything works as expected, you'll see a message: "BUILD SUCCESSFUL"
4. Go to [app directory]\app\build\outputs\apk and you will see 3 .apk files. These are the apk files generated by the Gradle build

###Running the .apk files

You can either download a third-party Android Emulator (such as BlueStacks) which will most 
probably install and simulate the .apk files automatically when you click on them, or use the emulators 
that come with the Android SDK.

#####Using the Android SDK to run .apk files

go to the folder where you've installed the Android SDK then click on AVD Manager.exe and create a new virtual device.
After you create the device, start it by clicking on the button on the AVD Manager. It might take from 5 minutes
to 10 minutes for the emulator to start.

Once the emulator has started, open cmd.
cd to [android sdk]\platform-tools and then write: adb install "[path to your .apk file]". (run app-debug.apk)

Troubleshooting:
If you get a message saying that there are more than one devices or emulators running, write the command 
adb devices to see a list of attached devices, and close others but one. Once there is only one emulator/device
attached, run the commant adb install again, which should solve the problem.
